today more than ever before people
around you are in debt you might be in
this circumstance and look at what
happened just over the past few years a
very short period of time a lot of debt
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you we're going to start
to unpack exactly why this has happened
and what's coming next what I'm about to
tell you is very different from what
others have suggested all throughout
what I have been saying is that the
Federal Reserve is going to have to at
some point increase interest rates we
got there I was saying that simply
because inflation was going to be out of
control and they would need to deal with
it most people disagree with me but here
we are today now the flip side is coming
you got to pay attention let's get into
it right here we know that household
debt is a problem this exists in Canada
in the United States in Europe and
everywhere else around the world okay
looking at the ability to pay for an
unexpected $2,000 expense has declined
again not surprisingly because people
are in debt from other things the
student loans have come back after a few
years there're no more moratoriums all
of these things add up and certainly we
are in that circumstance right now but
guess what people are buying on Black
Friday people were buying on Cyber
Monday and so everything is good with
the consumer that's what we were told
look at the numbers it was a record
black Friday it was a record Cyber
Monday I know this myself from my own
business seeing how many sales came in
it was number one it was double what it
was the previous year but also just a
big surch now is that because it was
super strong and something was special
about it during that time or were people
holding off on their purchases to do so
right around that time frame and while
you know it wasn't the dip that I
experienced so generally what would
happen is before and after you'd
experience a big dip it wasn't as bad
actually this year it was kind of spread
out I would say but I'm only you know a
small fish in the big pond but looking
at this overall what I have seen from
the data is that individuals
overwhelmingly were buying the
Necessities I had you out there posting
uh there was the individual that was
posting that he's a driver for Walmart
he was able to look at all the different
things that he was going through no pla
no uh not plasma we're talking old
school here but all the flat screen TVs
and everything he wasn't delivering
those he was delivering food and and
clothing and I saw many others out there
I mean incredible comments that I was
reading describing what's happening for
your circumstance and so I want to thank
you for that now I have something so
interesting take a look this comes from
Google Trends if you haven't seen this
said before highly recommend that it
goes country by country and you could
see it for yourself but this trend of
buy now pay later every single time
right around Christmas time there's a
surge we get that guess what right
around now it happened again okay so the
holiday season comes around people use
it more than ever before but look at
where the trend has been heading over
the past few years up and up and up and
up like just kind of smooth that out
forget about the spike that we
experienced
you can see the trend more and more
people are using buy now pay later now
these services are becoming more common
and of course you're you know you're
they're they're on apps like it's easier
for sure they're more common available
all that but at the same time we know
that more now than ever before people
are relying on credit card debt on buy
now pay later and this is especially
prominent today and it tells us
something about the strength of the
consumer
us mortgages their rates have fallen and
you could see it's at 7.29% at the time
of this recording when I pulled up this
article look it it was at 8% now it's at
7.29 heading towards 7% it looks like
and of course we see this as being
positive for borrowers hey we don't want
to borrow at 8% we want to borrow at the
lowest level possible um but not many
people were borrowing when it was at 8%
let me tell you inflation slows in
Canada cracking door open to rate cuts
and this is where we get into it because
ultimately everybody is waiting for the
cuts they are holding they are waiting
and they are seeing and it's not just
households it's not just individuals
this is the businesses the commercial
side industrial they are all kind of
just saying let's hold off for the time
being and so that has been um obvious
right in the last little while but of
course with this shows us on the other
side of those rate guts what
historically has happened every time you
cut rates every time you print money at
the other end of it you get inflation
and so we find ourselves in this
predicament where people want them to
cut rates obviously we don't want to
spend a lot on our mortgages we don't
want to have to deal with the interest
rates being high but we know what comes
of it and you can best be sure that we
are going to have some seriously bad
inflation at some point here in the
future it's all dependent on how we flow
through the cycle but the Federal
Reserve is starting to hint at you know
this summer was the last rate hike and
so that means March would be the first
cut that's what history shows us it
depends on so many factors but what do
you think will they cut in March please
let me know in the comments below and
let's start replying to each other and
thumbs up on the best comments we see
because then we're going to be able to
have that debate is March the time for
the First Rate
cut fed rarely reh hies after a long
pause so this is the pause multiple
months in a row right they're saying no
probably not going to do it again the
next time
and the question is well they could
potentially just you know continue that
at a later time but historically that
doesn't happen very often yes in the
1970s they started cutting rates and
then they have to re you know bring that
back up again that has happened in the
90s there have been some
instances however it is not the most
common thing usually they cut there's a
panic there is some sort of signal some
sort of catalyst as to why they're doing
this it's usually a big problem a
financial crisis the Doom bust that you
know whatever it is there's an event and
so they cut rates during these periods
that's when we start to see the most
risk um you know the risk assets those
do the best at first because there's
like this kind of waiting and seeing Oh
I don't know what's going to happen I
don't know and then the investors come
in and some of them will lose a lot of
money but others will buy in at that
right moment and be able to get things
potentially for pennies on the dollar
but when it comes back up you got to
understand there is inflation that comes
along with that and if 2020 up until
2022 was any indication of the inflation
that could be experienced in a short
period of time let me tell you the next
time around it could be equal to or
greater than because of what we've seen
with the Mone money printing they've got
to do more each and every time that's
how they work that's how they operate
you could look around at the different
companies out there I've talked about
Walmart and others but this is a
target they said that they were
continuing to see declining sales other
the things that consumers simply want
but may not actually need such as
clothing Home Furnishings although there
had been an improvement from the second
quarter okay and so what I think is
interesting about that is that very
clearly people are buying what they must
you know that they can handle this with
the debt load they're using Black Friday
as a way to get their Christmas shopping
done earlier at a discount and I don't
blame anybody obviously that's a good
idea we want to be able to save where we
can and retailers could say oh wow we
did the best ever record record record
but let's be honest about it what does
it say about the health of the consumer
it doesn't look very good now does it
homeowners coping with rate hikes cut
spending Scotia Bank says and that's
been going on here you look at this
they're cutting spending because they're
paying more for their mortgages they're
paying more for all of their debt not
surprising at all Germany is now the
world's worst performing major economy
just just think of that like by years
ago would you have said that I mean you
would say yeah the whole Europe is
finished but there is one in there
that's a Shining Light Germany's so
strong the econom is there the world's
worst performing major economy things
have rapidly changed Europe is finished
I've said this a thousand times before
with the so much red tape complications
it's it's a nightmare
it is a nightmare let me tell you okay I
did a little bit of business in the
UK I want out okay that's an ongoing
problem by the way I got to deal with
but
anyway if you find yourself in a pickle
a money pickle well guess what I managed
to get money pickle the company to give
you a free meeting with a fiduciary or a
cfp you click on the this link it opens
up to this page and you're going to go
through you're going to set the time
that works for you and you could do a
meeting online with these guys they will
give you that for free I think it's
fantastic hearing great things from
everybody and please let me know I'm not
getting enough feedback I need to know
because I want to make sure that you
guys are getting great resources I have
some on my website the money gps.com
link is in the description for
everything that I have uh um and
basically I I just want you guys to be
in the right right shape okay especially
as we go into
2024 comment of the day it reminds me of
when the news gives the weather it's 3
below zero but it feels like 15 below
inflation is 3% but it feels like 15%
that's right and I said comment of the
day because that's the way it is right
oh yeah inflation's 3% I mean
I don't know if anybody believes that
it's crazy but here we are so I want to
thank you for being here hit that Thumbs
Up Button this is the kind of thing that
we've got to deal with each and every
day and so I want to see you back here
tomorrow I've got some interesting stuff
planned I'll see you then take care